StarCommand
The “StarCommand” expansion adds unique Sunjammer Captains and random Starfall system-wide events.
Sunjammer Captains
At the beginning of the game, each player chooses a Captain, which modifies their ship’s operation. Randomly
assign the ships, or allow players to choose their favorite. These are printed in 4 cards, with a/b on card 1, c/d
on card 2, etc.
Captain List
a. Malcolm “Sarge” Manderly: Malcolm adds +2 to all Attack Rolls
b. Anya “Fura” Andrews: Anya has one additional action that can’t be Overdriven, but has no Shields
c. Riley “Turbo” Rounder: Riley has +1 Move from Move cards, but no bonus defense from movement
d. Danny “Drifter” Davos: Danny moves 2 tiles forward at the beginning of the Cleanup step
e. Carlos “Danger” Connor: Carlos gains 1 VP whenever he loses a ship component
f. Knute “Rocky” Knuckles: Knute’s Bridge and Life Support components take 2 hits to destroy.
g. Beto “Golden” Briego: Beto gains 1 additional VP and 1 additional Desperation card from Vaults
h. Davey "Jones" Locker: Whenever a Life Support or Bridge component is destroyed, including his own, Davey gets 2 VP and a Desperation card.
Starfall Events
Solar storms and cosmic disasters plague the vast expanses of space, causing unpredictable mayhem for all
crews alike. After drawing for the turn but before issuing orders, reveal a new Starfall card. Its effect applies
immediately to all players and persists through the end of this round’s Cleanup step.
When a Starfall event deals damage, no cards are Overheated nor Desperation cards drawn (except by
Captain abilities). Shields may absorb the damage unless specified otherwise.
Starfall Deck
1. Solar Storm: Roll a single damage die. It applies to all players and penetrates shields.
2. Gravity Burst: Move all ships 2 tiles towards The Fang (the center Vault).
3. Clear Skies: All ships roll 3d6 for attacks instead of 2d6 this round.
4. Stars Align: Roll a d6, rerolling 6’s. The matching round’s Vaults open this round.
5. Take Cover: At the end of this round, deal 2 damage to all players outside of a Vault’s range. Any
Vault provides protection, even if it is not open.
6. Golden Bounty: This turn, when you hit an enemy ship for the first time during an Action (including
hitting Shields), gain 1 additional VP.
7. Most Dangerous Game: All Vaults 1-5 open this round.
8. Gusty Winds: All movement cards move players 1 additional tile this round.
9. Jolly Roger: Attackers gain a Desperation Card the first time they hit an opponent this round.
10. Safe Harbor: Each ship regains one shield charge (at most 2 total charges)